Create a unified, airgapped Software installation procedure (#3521)
astronomer/docs: software/install-airgapped.md

- The [Kubernetes CLI (kubectl)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).
- The [OpenSSL CLI](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.0.2/man1/openssl.html)
- [Helm (minimum v3.6)](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install).
- An SMTP service and credentials. For example, Mailgun or Sendgrid.
- The [Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest)
- Permission to create and modify resources on Azure
- Permission to generate a certificate (not self-signed) that covers a defined set of subdomains
- PostgreSQL superuser permissions
- If your organization uses Azure Database for PostgreSQL as the database backend, you need to enable the `pg_trgm` extension using the Azure portal or the Azure CLI before you install Astronomer Software. If you don't enable the `pg_trgm` extension, the install will fail. For more information about enabling the `pg_trgm` extension, see [PostgreSQL extensions in Azure Database for PostgreSQL - Flexible Server](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/concepts-extensions).

> </TabItem>

Author: ```suggestion
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

GKE users must additionally add a `containerdConfigToml` configuration containing a pair of lines for each registry hostname (and the associated secret name) in the following format:

```yaml
  astronomer:
    privateCaCertsAddToHost:
      enabled: true
      addToContainerd: true
      hostDirectory: /etc/containerd/certs.d
      containerdConfigToml: |-
        [host."https://<registry hostname>"]
          ca = "/etc/containerd/certs.d/<registry hostname>/<secret name>.pem"
```

## Step 12: Configure outbound SMTP email {#configure-outbound-smtp-email}

Astronomer Software requires the ability to send email to:

- Notify users of errors with their Airflow Deployments.
- Send emails to invite new users to Astronomer.
- Send certain platform alerts (in the default configuration, configurable).

Astronomer Software sends all outbound email using SMTP.

:::info

If SMTP is not available in the environment where you're installing Astronomer Software, follow instructions in [Configuring Astronomer Software To Not Send Outbound Email](#configuring-astronomer-software-to-not-send-outbound-email) and then skip the rest of this section.

:::

> 1. Obtain a set of SMTP credentials to use to send email from your email administator. Emails sent from Astronomer are not designed to be replied to via email - requesting an email address and display-name. Request all the following information:
>      * email address
>      * email display-name requirements (if any, e.g. some email servers require a from-line of: `Do Not Reply <donotreply@example.com>`)
>      * smtp username (usually the same as the email address)
>      * smtp password
>      * smtp hostname
>      * smtp port
>      * whether or not the connection supports TLS
> 2. Ensure that your Kubernetes cluster has access to send outbound email to the SMTP server.
> 3. Change the configuration in `values.yaml` from `noreply@my.email.internal` to an email address that is valid to use with your SMTP credentials.
> 4. Construct an email connection string and store it in a secret named `astronomer-tls` in the astronomer platform namespace. Make sure to *url-encode* the username and password if they contain special characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Obtain a set of SMTP credentials from your email administrator for you to use to send email from Astronomer Software. When you request an email address and display name, remember that these emails are not designed for users to reply directly to them. Request all the following information:
     * Email address
     * Email display name requirements. Some email servers require a **From** line of: `Do Not Reply <donotreply@example.com>`. 
     * SMTP username. This is usually the same as the email address.
     * SMTP password
     * SMTP hostname
     * SMTP port
     * Whether or not the connection supports TLS
     
     :::info 

    If there is a `/` or any other escape character in your username or password, you may need to [URL encode](https://www.urlencoder.org/) those characters.

    :::
    
2. Ensure that your Kubernetes cluster has access to send outbound email to the SMTP server.
3. Change the configuration in `values.yaml` from `noreply@my.email.internal` to an email address that is valid to use with your SMTP credentials.
4. Construct an email connection string and store it in a secret named `astronomer-tls` in the Astronomer platform namespace. Make sure to *url-encode* the username and password if they contain special characters.
```

    ```sh
    kubectl -n astronomer create secret generic astronomer-smtp --from-literal connection="smtp://my@40user:my%40pass@smtp.email.internal/?requireTLS=true"
    ```

>     In general, an SMTP URI is formatted as `smtps://USERNAME:PASSWORD@HOST/?pool=true`. The following table contains examples of what the URI will look like for some of the most popular SMTP services:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In general, an SMTP URI is formatted as `smtps://USERNAME:PASSWORD@HOST/?pool=true`. The following table contains examples of the URI for some of the most popular SMTP services:
```

    | Provider          | Example SMTP URL                                                                                 |
    |-------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
    | AWS SES           | `smtp://AWS_SMTP_Username:AWS_SMTP_Password@email-smtp.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/?requireTLS=true` |
    | SendGrid          | `smtps://apikey:SG.sometoken@smtp.sendgrid.net:465/?pool=true`                                   |
    | Mailgun           | `smtps://xyz%40example.com:password@smtp.mailgun.org/?pool=true`                                 |
    | Office365         | `smtp://xyz%40example.com:password@smtp.office365.com:587/?requireTLS=true`                      |
    | Custom SMTP-relay | `smtp://smtp-relay.example.com:25/?ignoreTLS=true`                                               |

    If your SMTP provider is not listed, refer to the provider's documentation for information on creating an SMTP URI.

:::info 

If there is a `/` or any other escape character in your username or password, you may need to [URL encode](https://www.urlencoder.org/) those characters.

> :::

Reviewer: I think we want this note earlier in the section.

Reviewer 2: We don't have a good alternative if they DON't want all the image tags - in reality they prune by hand. This guide could and the list probably should probably should be pulibhsed as part of our standard release process not assembled by users. Let's keep as-is and revisit opportunistically after this lands.

## Step 13: Configure volume storage classes

> If your cluster defines a volume storage class, and you wish to use it for all volumes associated with Astronomer Software and its Airflow Deployments, you may skip this step.
> Astronomer strongly recommends against backing up any volumes used for Astronomer Software with mechanical hard drives.
> 
> Replace `<desired-storage-class>` in the following configuration with the storage class you wish to use for each respective component. You can remove the configuration for any component where using the default storage is acceptable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Skip this step if your cluster defines a volume storage class, and you want to use it for all volumes associated with Astronomer Software and its Airflow Deployments.

Astronomer strongly recommends that you do not back up any volumes used for Astronomer Software with mechanical hard drives.

Replace `<desired-storage-class>` in the following configuration with the storage class you want to use for each respective component. You can remove the configuration for any component where using the default storage is acceptable. 
```

Reviewer 2: taking your suggestions but just commint directly to branch

:::info

Astro CLI users must also configure both their operating system and container solution, [Docker Desktop or Podman]((#configure-desktop-container-solution-extra-cas), to trust the private certificate Authority that was used to create the certificate used by the Astronomer Software ingress controller and any third-party container registries.

:::

## Step 11: Confirm your Kubernetes cluster trusts required CAs {#private-cas-for-kubernetes}

If at least one of the following circumstances apply to your installation, complete this step:

- You configured Astronomer Software to pull [platform container images](#use-a-custom-image-repository-for-platform-images) from an external container registry that uses a certificate signed by a private CA.
- You plan for your users to deploy Airflow images to Astronomer Software's integrated container registry *and* Astronomer is using a TLS certificate issued by a private CA.
- Users will deploy images to an external container registry *and* that registry is using a TLS certificate issued by a private CA. 

> Kubernetes must be able to pull images from one or more container registries for Astronomer Software to function. By default, Kubernetes only trusts publicly signed certificates.  This means that by default, Kubernetes does not honor the list of certificates [trusted by the Astronomer Software platform](#configuring-a-private-certificate-authority).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Kubernetes must be able to pull images from one or more container registries for Astronomer Software to function. By default, Kubernetes only trusts publicly signed certificates. This means that by default, Kubernetes does not honor the list of certificates [trusted by the Astronomer Software platform](#configuring-a-private-certificate-authority).
```

Many enterprises configure Kubernetes to trust additional certificate authorities as part of their standard cluster creation procedure. Contact your Kubernetes Administrator to find out what, if any, private certificates are currently trusted by your Kubernetes Cluster. Then, consult your Kubernetes administrator and Kubernetes provider's documentation for instructions on configuring Kubernetes to trust additional CAs.

Follow procedures for your Kubernetes provider to configure Kubernetes to trust each CA associated with your container registries, including the integrated container registry, if applicable.

Certain clusters do not provide a mechanism to configure the list of certificates trusted by Kubernetes.

> While configuring the Kubernetes list of cluster certificates is a customer responsibility, Astronomer Software includes an optional component that can, for certain Kubernetes cluster configurations, add certificates defined in `global.privateCaCerts` to the list of certificates trusted by Kubernetes. This can be enabled by setting `global.privateCaCertsAddToHost.enabled` and ``global.privateCaCertsAddToHost.addToContainerd` to `true` in your `values.yaml` file and setting `global.privateCaCertsAddToHost.containerdConfigToml` to:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While configuring the Kubernetes list of cluster certificates is a customer responsibility, Astronomer Software includes an optional component that can, for certain Kubernetes cluster configurations, add certificates defined in `global.privateCaCerts` to the list of certificates trusted by Kubernetes. This can be enabled by setting `global.privateCaCertsAddToHost.enabled` and `global.privateCaCertsAddToHost.addToContainerd` to `true` in your `values.yaml` file and setting `global.privateCaCertsAddToHost.containerdConfigToml` to:
```

```sh
kubectl --namespace astronomer create secret generic astronomer-bootstrap \
  --from-literal connection="postgres://bob:abc%40abc@some.host.internal:5432"
```

## Step 15: Configure an external Docker registry for Airflow images {#configure-a-private-docker-registry-airflow}

By default, Astronomer Software users create customized Airflow container images when they deploy project code to the platform. These images frequently contain sensitive information and must be stored in a secure location accessible to Kubernetes.

Astronomer Software includes an integrated image registry for this purpose.

Users can use images hosted in other container image repositories accessible to the Kubernetes cluster without additional platform-level configuration.

See [Configure a custom registry for Deployment images](#custom-image-registry) for additional configurable options.

## Step 16: Configure the Docker registry used for platform images {#configure-a-private-docker-registry-platform}

Skip this step if you are installing Astronomer Software onto a Kubernetes cluster that can pull container images from public image repositories and you don't want to mirror these images locally.

> ### Configure your install use a custom image repository for platform images {#use-custom-image-repository-for-platform-images}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Configure your install to use a custom image repository for platform images {#use-custom-image-repository-for-platform-images}
```

                repository: 012345678910.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/myrepo/astronomer/ap-git-sync
```

### Configure authentication to a custom platform registry

Astronomer Software platform images are usually hosted in internal repositories that do not require configuration. If your repository requires you pass an image credential:

1. Log in to the registry and follow the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/#log-in-to-docker-hub) to produce a `/.docker/config.json` file.
   
2. Run the following command to create an image pull secret named `platform-regcred` in the Astronomer Software platform namespace:

    ```sh
    kubectl -n <astronomer platform namespace> create secret generic platform-regcred \
    --from-file=.dockerconfigjson=<path/to/.docker/config.json> \
    --type=kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
    ```

3. Set `global.privateRegistry.secretName` in `values.yaml` to `platform-regcred`. For example:

    ```yaml
    global:
      privateRegistry:
        secretName: platform-regcred
    ```

> ## Step 17: Determine what version of Astronomer Software to install {#determine-what-version-of-astronomer-software-to-install}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 17: Determine which version of Astronomer Software to install {#determine-version-of-astronomer-software}
```

> Astronomer recommends new Astronomer Software installations use the most recent version available in either the Stable or Long Term Support (LTS) release-channel. Keep this version at hand for the following steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astronomer recommends new Astronomer Software installations use the most recent version available in either the Stable or Long Term Support (LTS) release-channel. Keep this version number available for the following steps.
```

See Astronomer Software's [lifecycle policy](release-lifecycle-policy) and [release notes](version-compatibility-reference) for more information.

## Step 18: Fetch Airflow Helm charts {#fetch-airflow-helm-charts}

> If you have internet access to `https://helm.astronomer.io` run the following command on the machine you will be installing Astronomer Software on:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have internet access to `https://helm.astronomer.io`, run the following command on the machine where you want to install Astronomer Software:
```

```sh
helm repo add astronomer https://helm.astronomer.io/
helm repo update
```

> If you don't have internet access to `https://helm.astronomer.io`, download the Astronomer Software Platform helm chart file corresponding to the version of Astronomer Software you are installing or upgrading to from `https://helm.astronomer.io/astronomer-<version number>.tgz`. For example, for Astronomer Software v0.34.1 you would download `https://helm.astronomer.io/astronomer-0.34.1.tgz`. This file does not need to uploaded to an internal chart-repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't have internet access to `https://helm.astronomer.io`, download the Astronomer Software Platform Helm chart file corresponding to the version of Astronomer Software you are installing or upgrading to from `https://helm.astronomer.io/astronomer-<version number>.tgz`. For example, for Astronomer Software v0.34.1 you would download `https://helm.astronomer.io/astronomer-0.34.1.tgz`. This file does not need to uploaded to an internal chart repository.
```

## Step 19: Create and customize upgrade.sh {#create-and-customize-upgradesh}

> Create a file named `upgrade.sh` in your [platform-deployment project-directory](#platform-deployment-project-directory) containing the script below. Specify the following values at the beginning of the script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a file named `upgrade.sh` in your [platform-deployment project-directory](#platform-deployment-project-directory) containing the following script. Specify the following values at the beginning of the script:
```

# ensure all the above environment variables have been set

helm repo add --force-update astronomer https://helm.astronomer.io
helm repo update

# upgradeDeployments false ensures that Airflow charts are not upgraded when this script is ran
# If you deployed a config change that is intended to reconfigure something inside Airflow,
# then you may set this value to "true" instead. When it is "true", then each Airflow chart will
# restart. Note that some stable version upgrades require setting this value to true regardless of your own configuration.
# If you are currently on Astronomer Software 0.25, 0.26, or 0.27, you must upgrade to version 0.28 before upgrading to 0.29. A direct upgrade to 0.29 from a version lower than 0.28 is not possible.
helm upgrade --install --namespace $NAMESPACE \
            -f ./values.yaml \
            --reset-values \
            --version $CHART_VERSION \
            --debug \
            --set astronomer.houston.upgradeDeployments.enabled=false \
            $RELEASE_NAME \
            $CHART_NAME $@
```

## Step 20: Fetch images from Astronomer's Helm template {#fetch-images-from-astronomer's-helm-template}

> The images and tags which are required for your Software installation depend on the version of Astronomer you're installing. To gather a list of exact images and tags required for your Astronomer version:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The images and tags that are required for your Software installation depend on the version of Astronomer you want to install. To gather a list of exact images and tags required for your Astronomer version:
```

    ```
    
    This command sets all possible Helm values that could impact which images are required for your installation. By fetching all images now, you save time by eliminating the risk of missing an image. 

4. Run the following command to template the Airflow Helm chart and fetch its rendered image tags:

    ```sh
    helm template --version $CHART_VERSION $CHART_NAME --set airflow.postgresql.enabled=false --set airflow.pgbouncer.enabled=true --set airflow.statsd.enabled=true --set airflow.executor=CeleryExecutor | grep "image: " | sed -e 's/"//g' -e 's/image:[ ]//' -e 's/^ *//g' | sort | uniq
    ```

5. Copy these images to the container registry using the naming scheme you configured [when you set up a custom image registry](#use-a-custom-image-repository-for-platform-images).

:::tip

You can pass `-f/--values values.yaml` to `helm template` to only show images that apply to your specific configuration.

:::

> ## Step 21: Fetch Airflow/ Astrp Runtime updates {#fetch-airflow-updates}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 21: Fetch Airflow/Astro Runtime updates {#fetch-airflow-updates}
```

> By default, Astronomer checks for Airflow/ Astro Runtime updates once a day at midnight by querying `https://updates.astronomer.io/astronomer-runtime`, which returns a JSON file with details about the latest available Astro Runtime versions. However, this URL is not accessible in an airgapped environment. There are several options for making these updates accessible in an airgapped environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Astronomer checks for Airflow/Astro Runtime updates once a day at midnight by querying `https://updates.astronomer.io/astronomer-runtime`, which returns a JSON file with details about the latest available Astro Runtime versions. However, this URL is not accessible in an airgapped environment. There are several options for making these updates accessible in an airgapped environment:
```

    ```sh
    kubectl -n <astronomer platform namespace> create secret generic platform-regcred \
    --from-file=.dockerconfigjson=<path/to/.docker/config.json> \
    --type=kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
    ```

3. Set `global.privateRegistry.secretName` in `values.yaml` to `platform-regcred`. For example:

    ```yaml
    global:
      privateRegistry:
        secretName: platform-regcred
    ```

## Step 17: Determine which version of Astronomer Software to install {#determine-version-of-astronomer-software}

Astronomer recommends new Astronomer Software installations use the most recent version available in either the Stable or Long Term Support (LTS) release-channel. Keep this version number available for the following steps.

See Astronomer Software's [lifecycle policy](release-lifecycle-policy) and [release notes](version-compatibility-reference) for more information.

## Step 18: Fetch Airflow Helm charts {#fetch-airflow-helm-charts}

If you have internet access to `https://helm.astronomer.io`, run the following command on the machine where you want to install Astronomer Software:

```sh
helm repo add astronomer https://helm.astronomer.io/
helm repo update
```

> If you don't have internet access to `https://helm.astronomer.io`, download the Astronomer Software Platform Helm chart file corresponding to the version of Astronomer Software you are installing or upgrading to from `https://helm.astronomer.io/astronomer-<version number>.tgz`. For example, for Astronomer Software v0.34.1 you would download `https://helm.astronomer.io/astronomer-0.34.1.tgz`. This file does not need to uploaded to an internal chart repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you don't have internet access to `https://helm.astronomer.io`, download the Astronomer Software Platform Helm chart file corresponding to the version of Astronomer Software you are installing or upgrading to from `https://helm.astronomer.io/astronomer-<version number>.tgz`. For example, for Astronomer Software v0.34.1 you would download `https://helm.astronomer.io/astronomer-0.34.1.tgz`. This file does not need to be uploaded to an internal chart repository.
```

- `CHART_VERSION`: Your Astronomer Software version, including patch and a `v` prefix. For example, `v0.34.1`.
- `RELEASE_NAME`: Your Helm release name. `astronomer` is strongly recommended.
- `NAMESPACE`: The namespace to install platform components into. `astronomer` is strongly recommended.
- `CHART_NAME`: Set to `astronomer/astronomer` if fetching platform images from the internet. Otherwise, specify the filename if you're installing from a file (for example `astronomer-0.34.1.tgz`).

```sh
#!/bin/bash
set -xe

# typically astronomer
RELEASE_NAME=<astronomer-platform-release-name>
# typically astronomer
NAMESPACE=<astronomer-platform-namespace>
# typically astronomer/astronomer
CHART_NAME=<chart name>
# format is v<major>.<minor>.<path> e.g. v0.32.9
CHART_VERSION=<v-prefixed version of the Astronomer Software platform chart>
# ensure all the above environment variables have been set

helm repo add --force-update astronomer https://helm.astronomer.io
helm repo update

> # upgradeDeployments false ensures that Airflow charts are not upgraded when this script is ran

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# upgradeDeployments false ensures that Airflow charts are not upgraded when this script is run
```

# If you deployed a config change that is intended to reconfigure something inside Airflow,
# then you may set this value to "true" instead. When it is "true", then each Airflow chart will
# restart. Note that some stable version upgrades require setting this value to true regardless of your own configuration.
# If you are currently on Astronomer Software 0.25, 0.26, or 0.27, you must upgrade to version 0.28 before upgrading to 0.29. A direct upgrade to 0.29 from a version lower than 0.28 is not possible.
helm upgrade --install --namespace $NAMESPACE \
            -f ./values.yaml \
            --reset-values \
            --version $CHART_VERSION \
            --debug \
            --set astronomer.houston.upgradeDeployments.enabled=false \
            $RELEASE_NAME \
            $CHART_NAME $@
```

## Step 20: Fetch images from Astronomer's Helm template {#fetch-images-from-astronomer's-helm-template}

> The images and tags that are required for your Software installation depend on the version of Astronomer you want to install. To gather a list of exact images and tags required for your Astronomer version:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The images and tags that are required for your Software installation depend on the version of Astronomer Software you want to install. To gather a list of exact images and tags required for your Astronomer Software version:
```

not 100% sure if I read this right

    ```
    
    This command sets all possible Helm values that could impact which images are required for your installation. By fetching all images now, you save time by eliminating the risk of missing an image. 

4. Run the following command to template the Airflow Helm chart and fetch its rendered image tags:

    ```sh
    helm template --version $CHART_VERSION $CHART_NAME --set airflow.postgresql.enabled=false --set airflow.pgbouncer.enabled=true --set airflow.statsd.enabled=true --set airflow.executor=CeleryExecutor | grep "image: " | sed -e 's/"//g' -e 's/image:[ ]//' -e 's/^ *//g' | sort | uniq
    ```

5. Copy these images to the container registry using the naming scheme you configured [when you set up a custom image registry](#use-a-custom-image-repository-for-platform-images).

:::tip

You can pass `-f/--values values.yaml` to `helm template` to only show images that apply to your specific configuration.

:::

## Step 21: Fetch Airflow/Astro Runtime updates {#fetch-airflow-updates}

> By default, Astronomer checks for Airflow/Astro Runtime updates once a day at midnight by querying `https://updates.astronomer.io/astronomer-runtime`, which returns a JSON file with details about the latest available Astro Runtime versions. However, this URL is not accessible in an airgapped environment. There are several options for making these updates accessible in an airgapped environment:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, Astronomer Software checks for Airflow/Astro Runtime updates once a day at midnight by querying `https://updates.astronomer.io/astronomer-runtime`, which returns a JSON file with details about the latest available Astro Runtime versions. However, this URL is not accessible in an airgapped environment. There are several options for making these updates accessible in an airgapped environment:
```

Again, pls double check

### Exposing Airflow updates using an Nginx endpoint

> The following topic provides an example implementation of hosting the Airflow updates JSON files in your airgapped environment and accessing them using an Nginx endpoint. Depending on your organization's platform and use cases, your own installation might vary from this setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This procedure provides an example implementation for how to host the Airflow updates JSON files in your airgapped environment and then access them using an Nginx endpoint. Depending on your organization's platform and use cases, your own installation might vary from this setup.
```

            extraEnv:
            - name: AIRFLOW__ASTRONOMER__UPDATE_URL
              value: http://astronomer-releases.astronomer.svc.cluster.local/astronomer-runtime
            
```

> ## Step 22: Openshift only - apply openshift-specific configuration {#openshift-configuration}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 22: (OpenShift only) Apply OpenShift-specific configuration {#openshift-configuration}
```

If you're not installing Astronomer Software into an OpenShift Kubernetes cluster, skip this step.

Add the following values into `values.yaml`. You can do this manually or by placing the configuration as a new file, as well as [merge_yaml.py](#merge-yaml) in your project directory and running `python merge_yaml.py openshift.yaml values.yaml`.

```yaml
astronomer:
  authSidecar:
    enabled: true
  dagOnlyDeployment:
    securityContext:
      fsGroup: ""
  fluentdEnabled: false
  loggingSidecar:
    enabled: true
    name: sidecar-log-consumer
  sccEnabled: false
elasticsearch:
  securityContext:
    fsGroup: ~
  sysctlInitContainer:
    enabled: false
```

> Astronomer Software on Openshift is only supported when using [a third-party ingress-controller](#elect-to-use-a-third-party-ingress-controller) and using the [logging sidecar](#configure-sidecar-logging) feature of Astronomer Software. The above configuration enables both of these items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astronomer Software on OpenShift is only supported when using [a third-party ingress-controller](#elect-to-use-a-third-party-ingress-controller) and using the [logging sidecar](#configure-sidecar-logging) feature of Astronomer Software. The above configuration enables both of these items.
```
This probably needs to get moved to before the code example - we try to give descriptions/heads up about any restrictions or limitations *before* the code examples that they relate to. Kind of a just in case, because most people skip the text sandwiched between a code block and the next header.

## Step 23: (Optional) Limit Astronomer to a namespace pool {#configure-namespace-pools}

By default, Astronomer Software automatically creates namespaces for each new Airflow Deployment.

> You may restrict the airflow-management components of Astronomre Software to a list of pre-defined namespaces and configure it to operate without a ClusterRole by following instructions in [Configure a Kubernetes namespace pool for Astronomer Software](namespace-pools.md) and setting`global.clusterRoles` to `false`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can restrict the Airflow management components of Astronomer Software to a list of predefined namespaces and configure it to operate without a ClusterRole by following the instructions in [Configure a Kubernetes namespace pool for Astronomer Software](namespace-pools.md) and setting `global.clusterRoles` to `false`. 
```

## Step 24: (Optional) Enable sidecar logging {#configure-sidecar-logging}

Running a logging sidecar to export Airflow task logs is essential for running Astronomer Software in a multi-tenant cluster.

By default, Astronomer Software creates a privileged DaemonSet to aggregate logs from Airflow components for viewing from within Airflow and the Astronomer Software UI.

> You may replace this privileged daemonset with unprivileged logging sidecars by following instructions at [Export logs using container sidecars](export-task-logs.md#export-logs-using-container-sidecars).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can replace this privileged Daemonset with unprivileged logging sidecars by following instructions in [Export logs using container sidecars](export-task-logs.md#export-logs-using-container-sidecars).
```

## Step 25: (Optional) Integrate an external identity provider {#integrate-an-external-identity-provider}

Astronomer Software includes integrations for several of the most popular OAUTH2 identity providers (IdPs), such as Okta and Microsoft Entra ID. Configuring an external IdP allows you to automatically provision and manage users in accordance with your organization's security requirements. See [Integrate an auth system](integrate-auth-system.md) to configure the identity provider of your choice in your `values.yaml` file. 

> ## Step 26: Pre-creating the load balancer {#creating-the-load-balancer}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 26: Create the load balancer {#creating-the-load-balancer}
```
Any reason why this is pre-create instead of just create?

> If you're using a third-party ingress controller or provisioning domain names for ingress objects using external DNS, skip this step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Skip this step if you're using a third-party ingress controller or provisioning domain names for ingress objects using external DNS.
```

> Astronomer Software platform components require DNS entries be pointing to a load-balancer associated with your ingress controller to install and function.
> 
> Perform a preliminary install of Astronomer Software to trigger the load-balancer creation. This installation will intentionally and timeout after 30 seconds, but it will cause the load balancer to be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install and function, Astronomer Software platform components require DNS entries to point to a load balancer associated with your ingress controller.

Perform a preliminary install of Astronomer Software to trigger your ingress controller to create the load balancer. This installation intentionally times out after 30 seconds, but it causes the ingress controller to still create the load balancer.
```

<Tabs
    defaultValue="script"
    groupId= "load-balancer-creation"
    values={[
        {label: 'upgrade.sh', value: 'script'},
        {label: 'helm', value: 'helm'},
    ]}>

<TabItem value="script">

```bash
./upgrade.sh --timeout 30s
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="helm">

- `CHART_VERSION`: Your Astronomer Software version, including patch and a `v` prefix. For example, `v0.34.1`.
- `RELEASE_NAME`: Your Helm release name. `astronomer` is strongly recommended.
- `NAMESPACE`: The namespace to install platform components into. `astronomer` is strongly recommended.

> - `CHART_NAME`: Set to `astronomer/astronomer` if fetching platform images from the internet. Otherwise, specify the filename if you're installing from a file (for example `astronomer-0.34.1.tgz`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `CHART_NAME`: Set to `astronomer/astronomer` if fetching platform images from the internet. Otherwise, specify the filename, if you're installing from a file. For example `astronomer-0.34.1.tgz`.
```

  
```sh
#!/bin/bash
set -xe

# typically astronomer
RELEASE_NAME=<astronomer-platform-release-name>
# typically astronomer
NAMESPACE=<astronomer-platform-namespace>
# typically astronomer/astronomer
CHART_NAME=<chart name>
# format is v<major>.<minor>.<path> e.g. v0.32.9
CHART_VERSION=<v-prefixed version of the Astronomer Software platform chart>
# ensure all the above environment variables have been set

helm upgrade --install --namespace $NAMESPACE \
            -f ./values.yaml \
            --reset-values \
            --version $CHART_VERSION \
            --debug \
            --set astronomer.houston.upgradeDeployments.enabled=false \
            --timeout 30s \
            $RELEASE_NAME \
            $CHART_NAME $@
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> Run `kubectl -n <astronomer platformm namespace> get service -l component=ingress-controller` and verify that a service-type LoadBalancer resource has been created and received an External IP in a range that is accessible to your end-users but **not** accessible to the general internet. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run `kubectl -n <astronomer platformm namespace> get service -l component=ingress-controller` and verify that a `service-type LoadBalancer` resource was created and that it received an External IP in a range that is accessible to your end-users, but **not** accessible to the general internet. For example:
```

```shell
$kubectl -n astronomer get service -l component=ingress-controller
NAME                       TYPE           CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)                      AGE
astronomer-nginx           LoadBalancer   172.30.239.161   10.42.42.17     80:32697/TCP,443:30727/TCP   39m
astronomer-nginx-metrics   ClusterIP      172.30.245.154   <none>          10254/TCP                    39m
```

> If the Astronomer Software platfrom chart is uninstalled and re-installed, the ingress controller will virtually always receive a new IP address, which requires DNS entries to be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you uninstall and re-install the Astronomer Software platform chart, the ingress controller almost always receives a new IP address, which requires updating the DNS entries.
```

> In lower environments, you may set `nginx.loadBalancerIP` in `values.yaml` to the External-IP address:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In lower environments, you can set `nginx.loadBalancerIP` in `values.yaml` to the External-IP address:
```

```
nginx:
  # IP address the nginx ingress should bind to
  loadBalancerIP: "10.42.42.17"
```

> This option allows the cluster to request same Load Balancer IP at creation time. Practically, re-builds immediately following teardowns can almost always receive the same IP address, but re-issuance is not guaranteed and installations will fail if the IP address has been assigned elsewhere or is otherwise not available. As such, this option should not be used in higher environments unless you have taken special measures to guarantee reissuence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option allows the cluster to request the same Load Balancer IP at creation time. Rebuilds immediately following teardowns can almost always receive the same IP address, but issuance is not guaranteed and installations will fail if the IP address has been assigned elsewhere, or is otherwise not available. Therefore, this option should not be used in higher environments unless you have taken special measures to guarantee the same IP address is reissued.
```

> ## Step 27: Configure DNS for the integrated ingress controller {#intigrated-ingress-controller-dns-configuration}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 27: Configure DNS for the integrated ingress controller {#integrated-ingress-controller-dns-configuration}
```

If you're using a third-party ingress controller, you can skip this step.

The Astronomer load balancer routes incoming traffic to your NGINX ingress controller. After you install Astronomer Software, the load balancer will spin up in your cloud provider account.

> Run `$ kubectl get svc -n <astronomer platform namespace>`to view your load balancer's CNAME, located under the `EXTERNAL-IP` column for the `astronomer-nginx` service. It should look similar to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run `$ kubectl get svc -n <astronomer platform namespace>`to view your load balancer's CNAME, located in the `EXTERNAL-IP` column for the `astronomer-nginx` service and look similar to the following:
```

```

You will need to create a new CNAME record through your DNS provider using the external IP listed for for `astronomer-nginx`.

You can create a single wildcard CNAME record such as `*.sandbox-astro.example.com`, or alternatively create individual CNAME records for the following routes:

Astronomer Software requires the following domain-names be registered and resolvable within the Kubernetes cluster and to Astronomer Software users:

- `app.<base-domain>` (required)
- `deployments.<base-domain>` (required)
- `houston.<base-domain>` (required)
- `prometheus.<base-domain>` (required)
- `grafana.<base-domain>` (required if using Astronomer Software's integrated grafana)
- `kibana.<base-domain>` (required if not using external elasticsearch)
- `registry.<base-domain>` (required if using Astronomer Software's integrated container-registry)
- `alertmanager.<base-domain>` (required if using Astronomer Software's integrated Alert Manager)
- `<base-domain>` (optional but recommended, provides a vanity re-direct to `app.<base-domain>`)
- `install.<base-domain>` (optional)

## Step 28: Install Astronomer Software using Helm {#install-astronomer-using-helm}

> Install the Astronomer Software Helm chart using `upgrade.sh` (recommended for your first install) or directly from helm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the Astronomer Software Helm chart using `upgrade.sh`, which is recommended for your first install, or directly from Helm.
```

<Tabs
    defaultValue="script"
    groupId= "load-balancer-creation"
    values={[
        {label: 'upgrade.sh', value: 'script'},
        {label: 'helm', value: 'helm'},
    ]}>

<TabItem value="script">

```sh
./upgrade.sh --timeout 20m
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="helm">

```sh
helm upgrade --install --namespace <astronomer-platform-namespace> \
            -f ./values.yaml \
            --reset-values \
            --version <v-prefixed-astronomer-platform-chart-version> \
            --debug \
            --set astronomer.houston.upgradeDeployments.enabled=false \
            --timeout 20m \
            $RELEASE_NAME \
            $CHART_NAME $@
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ## Step 29: Verify Pods are up {#verify-pods-are-up}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 29: Verify Pods creation {#verify-pods}
```

To verify all pods are up and running, run:

```sh
kubectl get pods --namespace <astronomer-platform-namespace>
```

> All pods should be in Running status. E.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All pods should be in Running status. For example, 
```

```command
$ kubectl get pods --namespace astronomer

NAME                                                       READY   STATUS              RESTARTS   AGE
astronomer-alertmanager-0                                  1/1     Running             0          24m
astronomer-astro-ui-7f94c9bbcc-7xntd                       1/1     Running             0          24m
astronomer-astro-ui-7f94c9bbcc-lkn5b                       1/1     Running             0          24m
<snip>
```

If all pods are not in running status, check the [guide on debugging your installation](debug-install.md) or contact [Astronomer support](https://support.astronomer.io) for additional configuration assistance.

> ## Step 30: Verify you can access the Software UI {#verify-you-can-access-the-software-ui}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 30: Verify you can access the Software UI {#verify-software-ui}
```

Visit `https://app.<base-domain>` in your web-browser to view Astronomer Software's web interface.

Congratulations, you have configured and installed an Astronomer Software platform instance - your new Airflow control plane.

From the Astronomer Software UI, you'll be able to both invite and manage users as well as create and monitor Airflow Deployments on the platform.

## Additional information

The following topics include optional information about one or multiple topics in the installation guide.

### Merge configurations with `merge_yaml.py` {#merge-yaml}

> When merging YAML configuration into `values.yaml`, you may do so manually or with a tool of your choosing.
> 
> The following `merge_yaml.py` script can be used to merge YAML excerpts into `values.yaml` automatically. This script requires python and the `ruamel.yaml` package, which you can install using `pip install ruamel.yaml`. To run the program, ensure that both `merge_yaml.py`, `values.yaml`, and the `yaml` file containing the configuration you want to add are all in your project directory. Then, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When merging YAML configurations into `values.yaml`, you can merge manually or with a tool of your choosing.

You can use the following`merge_yaml.py` script to merge YAML excerpts into `values.yaml` automatically. This script requires both Python and the `ruamel.yaml` package, which you can install using `pip install ruamel.yaml`.
To run the program, ensure that `merge_yaml.py`, `values.yaml`, and the `yaml` file that contains the configuration you want to add are all in your project directory. Then, run:
```

        )
        if args.show_stacktrace:
            raise e
        exit(2)
    try:
        dest_data = load_yaml_file(dest_filename)
    except Exception as e:
        print(
            f"Error: {args.dest} is not a valid YAML file. Run with --show-stacktrace to see the error."
        )
        if args.show_stacktrace:
            raise e
        exit(2)

    if args.create_backup and not args.dry_run:
        create_backup(dest_filename)

    src_data = load_yaml_file(args.src)
    dest_data = load_yaml_file(args.dest)

    # if dest_data is empty, just copy src_data to dest_data
    if not dest_data:
        if not args.dry_run:
            save_yaml_file(args.dest, src_data)
    else:
        merged_data = deep_merge(dest_data, src_data, merge_lists=args.merge_lists)
        if not args.dry_run:
            save_yaml_file(args.dest, merged_data)
            print(f"Merged data from {args.src} into {args.dest}")
        else:
            yaml.dump(merged_data, sys.stdout)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()

```
                                       
### Disable outbound email 

> Astronomer Software can be configured to not send outbound email.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure Astronomer Software to not send outbound email.
```

:::info

Setting `astronomer.houston.config.publicSignup: true` with `astronomer.houston.config.email.enabled: false` is only secure when all non-OIDC authentication backends are explicitly disabled and the OIDC provider provides sufficient user validation to prevent untrusted users from accessing Astronomer Software.

:::

To disable email transmission and email verision of users attempting to access the platform:

1. In your `values.yaml` file, set `astronomer.houston.config.email.enabled` to `false`.
2. Set `astronomer.houston.config.publicSignups` to `true`.
3. Remove the `EMAIL__SMTP_URL` list-item from `astronomer.houston.secret`.

> ### Configure Astronomer Software to trust private certificate authorities (CAs) {#configuring-private-cas}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure Astronomer Software to trust private certificate authorities (CAs) {#configure-private-cas}
```

> 1. Store the CA's root public certificate to an [Opaque Kubernetes secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#secret-types) in the Astronomer namespace with a descriptive name, such as `private-root-ca`, by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Store the CA's root public certificate to an [Opaque Kubernetes secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#secret-types) in the Astronomer namespace with a descriptive name, such as `private-root-ca`, by running the following command.

    :::tip
    
    Before you run this command, keep the following in mind:
    
     - The root certificate you specify should be the certificate of the authority that signed the Astronomer certificate. This is not the certificate associated with Astronomer or any other service.
    - The name of the secret file must be `cert.pem` for your certificate to be trusted properly.
    - The file must contain only a single certificate, it can't be a certificate bundle.
    
    :::

```

    ```sh
    kubectl -n astronomer create secret generic private-root-ca --from-file=cert.pem=./private-root-ca.pem
    ```

>     Before you run this command, keep the following in mind:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     - The root certificate you specify should be the certificate of the authority that signed the Astronomer certificate. This is not the certificate associated with Astronomer or any other service.
>     - The name of the secret file must be `cert.pem` for your certificate to be trusted properly.
>     - The file must contain only a single certificate, it may not be a certificate bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

2. Add `<secret name>` to the list of secret names contained in `global.privateCaCerts` in `values.yaml`:
  
    ```yaml
    astronomer:
      privateCaCerts:
      - private-root-ca
    ```

### Add trusted certificate authorities (CAs) to Docker Desktop {#configure-desktop-container-solution-extra-cas}

> If your users will be deploying images to a container registry (including the integrated container registry) that uses a TLS certificate signed by a private CA, Docker Desktop needs to be configured to trust the CAs public certificate. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your users will deploy images to a container registry, including the integrated container registry, that uses a TLS certificate signed by a private CA, you need to configure Docker Desktop to trust the CA's public certificate. 
```

> Obtain a copy of the CAs public certificate in pem format and place it in `/etc/docker/certs.d`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Obtain a copy of the CA's public certificate in pem format and place it in `/etc/docker/certs.d`:
```

            raise e
        exit(2)

    if args.create_backup and not args.dry_run:
        create_backup(dest_filename)

    src_data = load_yaml_file(args.src)
    dest_data = load_yaml_file(args.dest)

    # if dest_data is empty, just copy src_data to dest_data
    if not dest_data:
        if not args.dry_run:
            save_yaml_file(args.dest, src_data)
    else:
        merged_data = deep_merge(dest_data, src_data, merge_lists=args.merge_lists)
        if not args.dry_run:
            save_yaml_file(args.dest, merged_data)
            print(f"Merged data from {args.src} into {args.dest}")
        else:
            yaml.dump(merged_data, sys.stdout)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()

```
                                       
### Disable outbound email 

You can configure Astronomer Software to not send outbound email.

:::info

Setting `astronomer.houston.config.publicSignup: true` with `astronomer.houston.config.email.enabled: false` is only secure when all non-OIDC authentication backends are explicitly disabled and the OIDC provider provides sufficient user validation to prevent untrusted users from accessing Astronomer Software.

:::

> To disable email transmission and email verision of users attempting to access the platform:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To disable email transmission and email verification of users attempting to access the platform:
```

?
